# Programming Project: Dog Race

For this assignment, your job is to create a simple simulation of a carnival game in which mechanical dogs race along a track.

## Clone Project

Begin by cloning the provided project and importing it into your workspace.

`git clone <url for github repository>`

After cloning this repository you want to run these commands

`git checkout -b development`

This will create a branch named development and switch you to it. The development branch is where you will make all your commits.

## Import into Eclipse

You should then go to Eclipse, which hopefully has finished installing.

In the top toolbar, click File --> Import. Double-click on General and then `Projects from Folder or Archive`. Click `Directory` and find the folder inside the repository named `DogRace` and click Open. The project should pop up in the text box Projects. Click finish and you should be good to go!

## Complete DogRace Assignment

You will write code in the DogTrack class to complete this assignment. The DogTrack class should be written so that the driver class below, DogDriver, works as written.

In this simulation, a dog track has N discrete positions, 0 through N-1. The value of N is determined by user input from the keyboard- see the DogDriver code below.

There are three dogs, named Fido, Spot, and Rover. Each starts at position 0. A random value from among the values 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 is generated by a method called spin with each value equally likely to be generated.

Each dog advances by a separate call to spin. In general a dog advances 1 space when spin returns a 1, 2 spaces when the spinner spins a 2, and so forth. The game is over when (at least) one of the dog crosses the finish line, that is, when at least one dog reaches a board value that is greater than or equal to (N-1).

### A special condition:

if a dog lands exactly at position number N/3 or position number 2N/3, where N is the size of the track, then that dog returns to its position before the move was made, and then moves back one more square, if possible. Because there are no negative positions, a dog at 0 that advances to N/3 on the first move does NOT go to (negative) position -1; after the move it should simply remain at position 0. See sample run below for an example.

### How the game is rendered:

You will write a method showTrack, which should draw the state of the race as three "lines", one for each dog, using an 'o' (lowercase letter o) to represent unoccupied positions, and the capital letters F,R, and S to represent dog positions. These 3 line groups should be separated by a row of dashes, as shown in the sample run below. If the track size is 10, then this output:

```
Rooooooooo
ooooooSooo
ooFooooooo
```

means that the dog Rover is at location 0 on the track,the dog Spot is at location 6 on the track, and the dog Fido is at location 2 on the track.

The game algorithm is as follows:

- After creating a new instance of DogTrack with the track size passed in, the playGame method is called, starting the game.
- The state of the game is rendered by a call to showTrack.
- Then, as long as the game is not over, move the dogs and show the track.
- When the game is over, show the winners.

Here is the driver class for the racing game:

```java
import java.util.Scanner;
public class DogDriver{
  public static void main(String[] args){
    System.out.println("Enter the size of the track (an int greater than 3):");
    Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
    int trackSize = scanner.nextInt();
    System.out.println("track Size: " + trackSize);
    DogTrack dogTrack = new DogTrack(trackSize);
    dogTrack.playGame();
  }
}
```

Here is a sample run:

```
> run DogDriver
Enter the size of the track (an int greater than 3):
8

track Size: 8

Fooooooo // all dogs start a position 0
Sooooooo
Rooooooo
--------
ooooFooo // at position 4
oooSoooo // at position 3
Rooooooo // Rover spins 2, but 8/3 = 2, so Rover goes back to 0, but NOT to position -1
--------
oooFoooo // Fido, at position 4, spins a 1, to location 5 = (2*8)/3, so: back to original position 4, then back 1, to pos 3
ooooSooo
ooooRooo
--------
ooooFooo
oooooooS // S & R have reached position 7 = tracksize - 1, terminating the game
oooooooR
--------
Spot Wins!
Rover Wins!
```

Note that in this example the positions are 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7; position N/3 = 8/3 = 2 is a go-back square, as is position (2\*8)/3 = 5.

## Project Requirements:

1. Your code is submitted as a DogTrack class definition.

2. Your DogTrack constructor agrees with the call made in the DogDriver code provided.

3. Your DogTrack class must include and MAKE ESSENTIAL USE OF the following methods:

   - playGame() - the top level method that starts the game.

   - spin() - generates an integer value from 1 to 5 inclusive at random.

   - moveDogs() - advances the dogs (you will call spin() from this method. It is suggested but not required that you write 3 separate methods, moveRover(), moveSpot(), moveFido(), and call them from moveDogs(). Each of these methods would then call spin()).

   - isOver() - returns boolean true if at least one dog is in a winning position, false otherwise.

   - showTrack() - prints the three tracks using 'o' and a dog letter to indicate dog position. Should insert a row of dashes after the three tracks are displayed. NOTE: the number of dashes must equal the track size.

   - showWinners() - reports the winning dog or dogs when the race ends (see example above).

4. Do NOT include any import statements in the class you submit.

5. Use the Math class method to generate your random numbers.

6. Do NOT import the java.util library.

7. Do NOT implement your solution using arrays.

8. Develop your code incrementally. Make the simplest implementation, compile, and test. Then add more functionality one step at a time, compile and test before adding more code.

## Notes

- You need to comment your methods according to this [Javadoc Guide](https://github.com/jd12/liferay-portal/blob/master/readme/ADVANCED_JAVADOC_GUIDELINES.markdown).

- Use the [Game50 Example](./ProgrammingSimpleGames.md) as a guide to approaching this project
